Step 3: Design, develop and test.
All right, so now we have described the process in a "Process Definition Document" and it's time to design,
develop and test the process automation.
The first step is design. Before development in the chosen RPA software,
there is usually a developer meeting where, based on the "Process Definition Document", the process
to be automated is discussed.
In this meeting, the RPA developer - or developers- choose how to design the process;
for example, if we should use a sequence in UiPath or if we should use a flowchart, or maybe we
should use another framework such as the "Robotic Enterprise Framework".
The developers draft a high level workflow and discuss the logic; they agree on what framework to use,
if any, and they make sure that company guidelines and best practices are followed. For example,
in regards to naming conventions of variables and arguments.
Once the design phase is over, we have the development phase, and that is where we develop and automate the
process in a test environment using the chosen RPA software. The development is done according to
the "Process Definition Document" and the design, logic and framework chosen in the developer meeting.
While developing, the developer will continuously test the process steps and adjust the process if necessary,
to ensure robustness.
And finally, we have testing.
Robot testing is necessary to ensure that potential challenges are identified and mitigated as the majority
of exceptions are found and handled during the test phase. Before implementing the process, it's necessary
to do proper testing to avoid critical errors once the process is implemented.
In this phase, the final robot undergoes different tests,
and as a minimum, I recommend to do unit testing; meaning to test each and every component of the
automated solution step by step.
This is usually done by the RPA developer - or by another RPA developer with less insights into the overall
process, so that we get kind of a third party or outsider opinion. Usually in UiPath the automated process consists
of multiple individual workflows or projects that are triggered from a main workflow or main project.
When performing unit testing each workflow that is part of the main workflow is tested individually.
The second test I recommend is functional testing; meaning to test the process to ensure that the business
process output is successfully produced. This type of testing focuses only on the output to check if
it is per the business requirement or not.
And thirdly, I recommend to do acceptance testing.
This is to verify whether the end-to-end process flow is as per business requirements or not, and if
it is as per the needs of the end users. The test is done by someone else than the RPA developer and
it is the last phase of testing after which the software goes into production. End users accept the software
only when all the features and functionalities work as expected.
If any of the tests identifies that any changes are needed, we need to handle this. Minor bugs are
usually handled directly, while major changes would require a loop back to either the development or
the design phase.
But if all tests are fine, the tested and approved robot or process is ready for production!